“To-morrow,” he would add, smiling at them with a slightly menacing geniality,
“you’ll be settling down to serious work. You won’t have time for generalities.
Meanwhile .”
Meanwhile, it was a privilege. Straight from the horse’s mouth into the notebook.
The boys scribbled like mad.
Tall and rather thin but upright, the Director advanced into the room. He had a
long chin and big rather prominent teeth, just covered, when he was not talking,
by his full, floridly curved lips. Old, young? Thirty? Fifty? Fifty-five? It was
hard to say. And anyhow the question didn’t arise; in this year of stability, A. F.
632, it didn’t occur to you to ask it.
“I shall begin at the beginning,” said the D.H.C. and the more zealous students
recorded his intention in their notebooks: Begin at the beginning. “These,”
he waved his hand, “are the incubators.” And opening an insulated door he
showed them racks upon racks of numbered test-tubes. “The week’s supply
of ova. Kept,” he explained, “at blood heat; whereas the male gametes,” and
here he opened another door, “they have to be kept at thirty- five instead of
thirty-seven. Full blood heat sterilizes.” Rams wrapped in theremogene beget
no lambs.
Still leaning against the incubators he gave them, while the pencils scurried illegibly
across the pages, a brief description of the modern fertilizing process;
spoke first, of course, of its surgical introduction- “the operation undergone voluntarily
for the good of Society, not to mention the fact that it carries a bonus
amounting to six months’ salary”; continued with some account of the technique
for preserving the excised ovary alive and actively developing; passed
on to a consideration of optimum temperature, salinity, viscosity; referred to
the liquor in which the detached and ripened eggs were kept; and, leading his
charges to the work tables, actually showed them how this liquor was drawn
off from the test-tubes; how it was let out drop by drop onto the specially warmed
slides of the microscopes; how the eggs which it contained were inspected
for abnormalities, counted and transferred to a porous receptacle; how (and he
now took them to watch the operation) this receptacle was immersed in a warm
bouillon containing free-swimming spermatozoa-at a minimum concentration
of one hundred thousand per cubic centimetre, he insisted; and how, after ten
minutes, the container was lifted out of the liquor and its contents re-examined;
how, if any of the eggs remained unfertilized, it was again immersed, and, if
necessary, yet again; how the fertilized ova went back to the incubators; where
the Alphas and Betas remained until definitely bottled; while the Gammas, Deltas
and Epsilons were brought out again, after only thirty-six hours, to undergo
Bokanovsky’s Process.
